09/10/23 Notes

Added the last bit to account for number density across different layers in the atmospheres. Broadening is computed as a pi, pi* and sigma+ bond RMS average, with a probability distribution taken from Mike and Hubeny and Mihalas. Plot was along tau rosseland, but this doesn't actually matter as it's an arbitrary x axis choice from the MARCS models.

08/10/23 Notes
Updated the data extract files - originally this took the last part of the CSV name and extracted data from set rows in the files. However, if the TDDFT calculations for a given state did not converge, they are left out of the results in the python code.

The new method is a little cleaner, and selects values via the oscillator strength, before restricting the wavelength range to between 300-500nm, which is where there is some close broadening effects. The ground state at this close spacing looks to approximate the bonding energy - repulsive orbitals are higher energy, attractive orbitals are lower.

Can clearly see the sigma+, pi and pi* results for H2. Need to move the files in "Bad Data" back into the respective folders noting the new extract method.








20/09/23 Notes

Tried to rebuild pyscf with the OpenBLAS library on the main desktop machine, not sure if working correctly or whether this is a consequence of modelling the molecular hydrogen solution. Should have some intial coarse results by the end of the day, and can plot the potential. I expect a purely repulsive potential at further interatomic distances.

Also wrote up the Van der Waals interation probability distribution based on the example in the Stellar atmospheres and atomic radiation processes notes. Expect that phi(delta nu) ~ delta nu ^(-1/2). Further examination on how the linear stark effect in included (whether by a straight convolution with natural broadening) or if this is included within the lorentzian profile (the latter would be significantly easier bc then I can use the Voigt Profile code from class).

Started on the literature review for the final submission, will update the git repo as appropriate. Continuing on tasks outlined yesterday.

19/09/2023 Notes
Had lecture where mike went over problem solving techniques. Spencer and I agreed to split work on how we approach the rest of the problem - He will look at the distribution for the nearest neighbour approximation while I continue to refine the CaH and Ca - H_2 calculations.

Brought Spencer up to speed on how to do excited states i.e. post Hartree-Fock methods required to determine excited states.

This is because Hartree-Fock methods assume a single Slater determinant for the wavefunction, where post-Hartree-Fock methods account for a linear combinantion of Slater Determinants as found in the MCSCF methodology used in the Habli et. al. paper.

Additionally had a chat to Thomas about what the expected level of effort is, and the next set of steps. Discussed the intial "What is the interesting interaction distance probability?" question before looking at the (later) convolution of the potential energy curves with the probability distribution.


To do: 
- (easy) Change the ground state case to CCSD(T), this is the gold-standard for Hartree Fock
- (hard) Run the code for a single H_2 and Ca orientation, noting that we won't capture the full range of angular dependence.
- (time consuming) WebPlot Digitiser for the Habli results, might be easier for when we're pushed for time/accuracy
- (medium) Download NextGen and MARCS model atmospheres from Wattle, transform into interparticle probability distributions per layer